paying without cash is fast becoming the
norm even tiny amounts with my card it's
just easier and it's becoming easier and
easier we'll cash soon be a thing of the
past when I think about it I pay more
without cash than with
we cannot use around the world financial
corporations politicians and leading
economists are working to do away with
cash I'd see a future where you will be
able to hold digital euro digital
dollars directly at the central bank
who stands to profit from a world
without money and who will be the losers
[Music]
without Suzanne ashleeta many people
would have problems getting their hands
on money here in the so-called Swabian
Alps a rural part of Southwest Germany
she drives out two villages that no
longer have a bank or cash machine when
I started my training the bank was still
opening new branches I never thought I
would end up providing my customers with
money and other banking services in this
way the kundo Midgar don't ever the
underbanked in / tomb of a salt
her money van serves the outlying areas
around the town of hiding hime she has
specially assigned stops where she parks
and then sets up shop this Bank on
wheels provides the usual
over-the-counter services it has an ATM
and a machine for printing bank
statements many here are fed up that
they have no bank in their area that
would be much better young people like
me can use online banking but I still
need cash in pitsee there's no other
option in this area anymore there's
nothing this is a flashlight this is
probably just a temporary measure for
the next few years all the banks are
closing down branches it's happening
more and more they're forced to save
money that's what gets it just a few
kilometers away from Heidenheim is the
town of health and fingon the local bank
closed here in 2017 and Helton finger is
not served by a money van anyone needing
cash here heads to a local inn called
the oxen 50 euros can't afford more the
manager uses his card reader to debit
people's accounts and pay out cash to
anyone who needs it
he set the limit at 200 euros after all
he's not a bank he says sometimes to go
somewhere more discreet to pay out the
money it's up to the individual some
people don't want others to see that
they're taking out money Australia what
is new in seed cash on tap so to speak
his customers certainly appreciate the
service as we captain I'd rather have
physical money in my hands yeah that's
right you can get a watch now to pay for
things or transfer money it'll even give
you a receipt all this is just the
beginning Eastern phone
[Music]
a world without cash in Sweden that's
now all but a reality whether you're
buying a ticket for the tram or bus a
meal at a restaurant or cafe
paying for the parking lot or even the
public bathrooms all you need is a card
or mobile phone we've come to a flea
market in the center of Stockholm
there's the usual array of bargains most
of them can be purchased for very little
but you soon notice that virtually every
stand has a sign bearing mobile phone
numbers and often a name too
[Music]
if you find something you like you just
pull up your phone and swish
it's Sweden's very own mobile payment
system sixty crown and you pay with a
mobile right yes always people's mobile
or no card mostly but like these
patients it's really good
pay with switch yeah so how does swish
work basically you just need a person's
phone number so you typing the person's
phone number and it will announce like
who the person is that it belongs to and
then you will just get notified like if
somebody swishes me I would get a
notification that the money is in my
account
sweden's banks got together to launch
the service as a joint initiative the
aim is to simplify payment and cut costs
I never use cash from my view if you can
be completed without cash I mean though
I think that would be good
I hate having cash on me they just
disappear if you have it in pockets
sometimes I even throw them in the
garbage because I don't know what the
prospect of cash disappearing completely
doesn't bother most people here most of
the cash that exists today they don't
exist in physical money so I think we
are already there and when individuals
stop using physical money that's just a
very tiny small step in this whole
process which has been going on for a
long time there are dissenting voices
but they're the exception I'm forced to
we cannot use cash money in Sweden
anymore that is very very very little
because they take it away so I have to
use my card I would like to choose for
myself but I will use it like this I
don't want to use the card here because
I don't know the people who works here
and I feel you not say
my god the special of my credit card a
world away from the big city Lynne runs
a gas station on one of Sweden's
countless small islands she still
accepts both cards and cash where you
would say I preferred the credit cards
we try to keep the cash amount as low as
possible we have this safety box here
but if there's also risk within the cash
M but if I see as a merger the expense
on handling the cash is now higher than
my credit card expenses and yeah I would
say I prefer if they use the paper once
a week Lin counts up all her cash
takings and fills out forms the banks in
her area have long stopped accepting
cash every time she brings notes and
coins to the bank she has to make a
special trip depositing her cash is
inconvenient and expensive but
withdrawing cash is even worse the bank
charges her nearly 200 euros a few times
each year we need to take out change and
it cost me last time about two thousand
crimes 444 just getting coins and I get
the amount I took out coins in isn't
even the same amount of money so it
costs me quite a lot during a year
she drives more than half an hour to get
to a place that accepts cash it's
basically a deposit box for each bag of
money she pays a fee of 20 euros so not
surprisingly Lyn can hardly wait for
cash to disappear
[Music]
the main beneficiaries of this
development are located on the other
side of the Atlantic
conventional credit card companies like
Visa and MasterCard but also new payment
service providers like Google or Apple
and Amazon the online retailer has now
opened a number of supermarkets without
checkouts customers simply scan their
phones at the entrance after that
cameras track what items they select
facial recognition technology allows the
system to identify each customer and
bill their credit card as they leave a
receipt for their purchases then appears
in their Amazon Go app
[Music]
no cash it's a trend that's growing in
popularity worldwide last year visa ran
a campaign in which it offered 50
restaurants $10,000 each
if they agree to stop accepting cash
Michael Bryan wasn't able to apply as
his restaurant had already gone cashless
I've been in this business a long time
and I feel like there's a lot of theft
when you have cash around so when
there's cash in the safe downstairs in
the office behind the counter everyone
is dipping in everyone's sharing you
share your drawer with another employee
there's cash always goes missing so it's
just like this eliminated theft issue so
that that's off the table but the more
importantly it's like today I was late
to work the place can still open because
they don't need to go to the safe get
cash set up the store he can just arrive
and open up so it's from an operational
standpoint it's a breeze it's super
super easy
a world without cash is not the kind of
world Brett Scott wants to see he used
to work as a financial broker now he's a
writer he believes preserving the
ability to pay with cash is vital cash
doesn't have anybody who to protect to
to advocate for it because it's like a
public utility so you have on the one
side these highly motivated commercial
entities and on the other side the other
hand you have cash she doesn't have
anybody who everybody uses it but nobody
that doesn't have an official
spokesperson or it doesn't have a
marketing departments so it's a kind of
an unfair battle
he came over from Britain to attend a
conference at Columbia University in New
York the question on the agenda here is
this the end of cash the conference
brought together a select group of
financial experts from around the world
none of them believed cash stands much
of a chance anymore but Bret believes
the current trend is a mistake the best
analogy to understand this is to think
about cars versus bicycles if you're
living in a world where there's only
bicycles actually maybe it'll be a good
thing to get a car you can travel
further you can travel faster but that's
different to saying you want to get rid
of the ability to use bicycles actually
what you want is the world where you
have different forms of transport in a
similar way you want a world where you
have different forms of payment so
sometimes in certain situations you can
use cash sometimes digital but these
guys are not calling for that they're
saying we want a world with its only
digital or in the transport analogy only
cars you're only allowed to use cars
when he's travelling Brett sometimes
pays by card but he mostly prefers to
use cash
this machine does accept cash in theory
only right now it appears to be on
strike you might force me to use my bank
account
they're at the swipe instead
it's gonna send a message to my bank in
England and tell of a bunch of stuff to
them they're gonna alter all their
databases before I can get this thing
yeah and they're gonna love this is all
about to see this and now there's a
third party who's gonna watch what I'm
doing so this machine is forcing me to
do it finally we got it so what role
does data play in the whole drive to go
cashless
[Music]
back in Germany at the University of
Zagan economics students are wondering
how safe digital payment systems are
could we become completely transparent
just by doing our shopping where
companies know everything about us every
time I think I know who will my dates
will be passed onto now it depends on
what website you were on but often
things happen very fast and you've no
choice when I think about it I pay more
without cash than with that's just the
way things are moving somehow we live in
Europe where we have strict data
protection laws so I tend to just be
trusting I take the easy way out and
there's also this aspect that everyone
does it you think it can't be that bad
if it's a widespread I think that's a
key aspect right now Germany is still
very much a society that likes cash but
the example from Sweden shows how
quickly things can change
this isn't emotion it's an issue for two
reasons firstly because in many cases
you have no choice which takes some
getting used to for people in my age but
secondly it raises concern because we're
losing an element of freedom here we're
allowing ourselves to be monitored
at the university canteen students have
always paid for their meals in cash
first they purchase a voucher then they
collect their food but here two things
are changing
so are you paying cash students can now
pay with an app on their smartphone so
you're paying with blue cone okay you
still have to check their plates to make
sure you've got it right and what you
need to charge for one hot pot okay blue
cones as long as they're ready it's
super fast so what do the students think
it was super easy and it really saved
time but we were just saying we didn't
notice how much it cost the app doesn't
show you that the money's just deducted
straight from your bank account so I
have to look at my bank up to double
check how much I just paid they might
get rid of the person that sells the
food vouchers so there's a question of
jobs but okay that's a separate issue
[Music]
contactless payment is not yet an issue
in Suzanne Ashley has money van she
believes that's a good thing every day
she sees how many older people already
struggle with doing bank payments online
or negotiating ATMs don't worry take
your time it was because he made a
mistake before that the card recorded it
but we've deleted that now so it's okay
you probably still need help
I don't like machines I don't like using
my machine I don't trust it Suzanne
Ashley ever helps her customers where
she can a cashless society is
inconceivable to many people here the
condemnation debarker the customers want
cash they just can't imagine going to
the bakery or the local market and
paying with their card that truly histo
obviously there are pros and cons but if
the customers want cash then I'll bring
it to them when please
back at the bank itself in the town of
Heidenheim staff have to deal with huge
amounts of coins and notes
the Germans may still love their cash
but the figures recorded by the banks
tell a different story
customers are drawing up less and less
money
meanwhile the bank says the cost of
keeping all the cash on hand is huge
fish market even give each - yeah those
guys produce quite a few tons worth each
year they put together over a hundred
and twenty thousand rolls of coins a
year using our machines my goodness
that's a lot you guys may not see I've
not seen tears costs which the bank
can't cover through the fees that the
customers pay what ones in killer Davos
in our basement where we keep the money
we generally have two employees working
full-time so personnel costs alone are
around a hundred thousand euros a year
then add the cost of materials paper the
machine electricity maintenance service
costs in theory the rent for the room as
well
money's an expensive product as it get
it isn't often occurs in toil skug
overall the cost to banks amounts to
billions of euros each year but that's
not the only issue threatening the
future of cash the European Union is
also playing its part putting limits on
cash payments and threatening to do away
with large euro notes is cash fast
becoming a museum piece
not at all says Germany's central back
but the man in charge of cash management
at the Bundesbank freely admits things
are changing skipped an Italian it's now
gonna do if there's a clear agenda going
on here and we mustn't be fooled by that
we're talking about a lot of money in
swimming companies learn a lot from
non-cash instruments like credit cards
even people don't talk about that much
but they're happy to talk up the cost of
cash don't reveal to you is that
non-cash payments also cost money
bother tongues instrumento all killed
Costin that's pathan even ganna fish
feeding credit card companies like Visa
and MasterCard as well as online payment
services like PayPal and the German
company pay direct earn their money by
charging fees for each transaction
in Germany alone there are over 20
billion payment transactions a year by
credit card or online payment service
it's a global goldmine yielding over a
trillion euros a year Kenneth Rogoff is
a professor of economics at Harvard
University and a former chief economist
for the International Monetary Fund he
says having a cash system also aids
crime and tax evasion I think it's not
that cash is bad we should always have
it but large notes the days when we need
them are gone and mostly they're not
used for anything good even in Germany a
lot of the businesses that only take
cash that's for a reason they're you
know not paying all their taxes people
want to get payments and cash they don't
want to pay taxes in some cases don't
want to have regulations and I think the
balance is shift where more and more of
cash is used for that purpose and not so
much for legal activities wrong golf
wants to see a world where there are
only coins and small denomination bills
for everyday use he believes all larger
payments should be made electronically
so they can be monitored it should
bother the government that they're
printing these large bills and they
don't know where they go it should
bother us regulators that many
apartments in New York Los Angeles Miami
sell for buckets of cash I mean really
is that because they're afraid of bags
is that because you know they don't you
know want to go to the inconvenience of
going to the bank and getting a check or
doing electronic transfer no I think we
all know why the payments were made in
cash and that's something we should make
more difficult
as one of the world's leading economists
his arguments have global influence in
November 2016 India made a shock
announcement overnight the country's
largest denomination bills ceased to be
legal tender suddenly around 85 percent
of India's banknotes could no longer be
used
corruption and the black-market
are the biggest challenges facing our
country job since coming to power we've
done a lot to combat that I need
probably got my four days there was
chaos on the streets huge lines formed
outside banks as panicked citizens
sought to exchange their banknotes what
made it worse was that anyone wanting to
change significant amounts was required
to do so via a bank account something
that hundreds of millions of ordinary
Indians didn't have
I can't get any money the government is
killing us with this program I haven't
slept for three days you can't imagine
the pressure I'm under but the
government initiative was certainly
successful in one thing it forced many
Indians to start using a credit card and
various payment apps one common argument
is that it's a good thing that millions
of people in poorer countries now have
bank accounts and access to credit and
digital payment systems that's certainly
the opinion of T default head of an
organization called the better than cash
Alliance we're promoting the shift from
cash to digital payments because believe
there are benefits for development for
well being to improve people's life by
moving from cash to digital payments he
says the way things were done in India
was perhaps not so ideal but he still
believes the direction is the right one
they have started a plan called digital
India which means they're promoting the
use of technology into government
services and all of those combines have
created a great platform for government
local governing government for companies
and for individuals to start being more
included in the economies and being at
the UN we believe that we can be a
neutral convener among governments among
companies and among people to make sure
that this shift is done in the best
possible way the better than cash
alliance does indeed operate under the
umbrella of the United Nations and works
closely with international organizations
but is it really neutral and independent
it's members include companies like Visa
and MasterCard global corporations like
H&M Unilever and gap they're mainly
interested in one thing making a profit
the initiative is also supported by
numerous governments and foundations
including that of Microsoft founder Bill
Gates the better than cash Alliance
wants to see people around the world
living in cashless societies having the
option to pay by card or mobile phone is
a good thing Brett Scott believes that
too but he has a bigger problem with
movements like the better than cash
alliance of course it's a good thing if
you can have new options for payments
and new ways to do things so I have no
problem with people getting digital
payments methods when they've already
when they've been forced to use cash
before but that's a very different thing
to saying they shouldn't be allowed to
use cash all right what what I like is
to have the option to use both of them
but actually what a lot of these people
like to better than cash Alliance and so
on they're not arguing that that's
they're not just saying that digital
payments a good thing they're saying
which we should also get rid of cash
Brent Scott says that would mean we
would only have one form of money in the
future the current system essentially
you have two forms of money ones the
state money which is cash the other is
bank money which is private all right
it's essentially commercial banks that
issue private private monies that were
we call it the same thing but these are
two forms of money so not all money is
the same on the one hand there's cash in
the form of bills and coins these are
guaranteed by the currencies central
bank but most money more than 80 percent
only exists in digital form as an
electronic figure on our bank accounts
this money is created by banks during
day-to-day transactions
in a world without cash customers could
no longer withdraw their money from the
bank because it would only exist in
electronic form if the bank were to fail
customers could well lose their wealth
the cashless society is essentially a
euphemism for seeing a commercial bank
payments society a private commercial
bank payment Society that's what
cashless society means
[Music]
so who would benefit most from a
cashless society that's what the
students at Zagan University want to
know today they're listening to Norbert
herring he's a business journalist who
spent years studying the move to do away
with cash
[Music]
so does extreme fortune if you think of
an extreme case where every time you pay
for anything even if it's just 50 Cent's
you use a payment app you'd be flooded
out with receipts it would be quite
difficult to check that everything had
been booked correctly herrings big
question is what happens to the data
that we leave behind every time we pay
for something he believes it's
outrageous that users are forced to sign
a blanket agreement with each payment
provider and then don't really know what
happens to their data afterwards I would
only have a choice if I had an option of
saying no you can then maybe I have to
pay a fee of 10 or 20 euros a month in
return I have a choice and it's my own
fault if I sign up but if I don't have
that choice do we die so what do online
payment services do without data to find
out the students take a look at the
terms and conditions detailed on their
website they begin with PayPal the
leading online payment system the terms
and conditions are super long you can't
really just glance over them and get an
overview in fact it's almost impossible
to read through it all unless you want
to spend 3 hours finding out where your
data is going to be sent it's a reminder
yes you get the impression that it's
designed to make you click ok and carry
on probably because there's information
in there that isn't too good what does
PayPal know about its customers and how
does the company use that information at
the German headquarters the company
director is keen to stress that PayPal
adheres closely to European
data protection laws here Thailand is a
dot we share this data only as necessary
for the transaction so nobody just
receives blanket data passed on by
paypal it's always for a specific
purpose related to the work that we do
the data doesn't remain with these
service providers it's only used for the
one purpose or if it isn't constructed
with nine cents that's big
but that purpose is subject to
interpretation and can mean many things
according to privacy advocates and
consumer protection groups in the moment
Minzy angrily the moment you agree that
the provider can use your personal data
for other purposes then make no mistake
it will be used no and to stay with
PayPal or online payment services when
you agree you automatically agree to
your data being used for advertising
purposes as well so it does get used for
other purposes not just a particular
service that you use payment services
like PayPal are looking to earn more
than just the fees they charge they want
data so they track their customers
behavior closely
PayPal's terms and conditions includes a
list of third parties to whom personal
data can be passed it's over 40 pages
long and includes some of the big data
collection companies like Google or
axiom but also Facebook and Oracle their
one goal personalized marketing
[Music]
fingered us filing in alongside
providing a payment service where many
people say you don't earn that much as a
company there are other business models
that focus on this data it's not yet
clear exactly which business models
those are but it's mainly services and
marketing activities and perhaps we
can't even imagine it all the different
ways that you can make money with data
that was filleted not garnish old Mayan
Conan verse mohamed allison goo chef
Mogan paypal is a US company with
headquarters in san jose it has around
230 million customers worldwide so it
presides over huge amounts of data I
mean these companies don't tell people
or how they use it this is an open
question I mean I guess we don't know
how Facebook users data or how Google
uses data there's always internal and
there's also different laws in different
countries about how financial data can
be used but certainly the the question
of when you combine different data sets
together so for example Google and Apple
are getting into the payments businesses
or trying to get in there with say Apple
pay and stuff and they already have all
sort of other data like location data
your search data when you combine those
data sets with payments data you start
to get the sort of three dimensional
picture of somebody if the data from our
payment transactions can be used to
create a perfect psychological and
social profile of each one of us what
effect does that have how does that
influence our everyday lives and the way
we live together in society
you're gonna have these systems where
people are actually aware that they are
being watched so they start to change
their behavior because they're their
concern that their every small action
has some implication if you think about
you know thirty years ago people didn't
think that their every small action was
going to be logged by some third party
to be analyzed
whereas now people are increasingly
thinking hey if I do that maybe maybe
it's going to impact my chances or
something so there's gonna be all these
like psychological effects of being
having all your small interactions
watched China is almost there already by
2020 the state aims to achieve near
total surveillance with a nationwide
network of cameras and facial
recognition technology Chinese internet
companies like Alibaba and ten cent
already analyzed their customers
shopping habits and share the data with
the state those who adhere to the
government's way of thinking may get a
better credit rating for example or a
cheaper apartment than those who don't
cooperate get punished the aim is for
total state control and in a cashless
society that could become a reality
he's seeing this issue within the
broader frame of digital technology more
generally which is trying to monitor
more and more things and bring more and
more things that previously weren't
monitored within the realm of formal
monitoring and of course that's always
framed as being you know this is going
to help you know people to get more
services and so on and so on but of
course on the other hand it's a new form
of control good privacy soon be a thing
of the past
Sweden is fast becoming a cashless
society the country is famous for its
openness and people here are
surprisingly relaxed about privacy
issues a couple of years ago there was
the site's on online the way you can see
where your neighbors are and your
co-workers and I mean most of us are
curious couriers so we take a little
peek but we are also open with it when
we meet we are able to discuss our how
we consume what we are from the
beginning we are transparent in our
communication to each other in Sweden we
found very little concern that private
data could be abused and certainly no
worries about state control for Lynne's
family paying without money is normal
the children use of both cash or okay
cards I can just go to my own children I
have three three sons and the smallest
one is now six and they have their only
cards that they pay with and either if
they go to get to buy a milk they used
to credit card over here to buy ice
cream so we see that the small ones use
carts as well
Lin is well aware that a cashless
society means banks take on a huge
amount of power and that's a cause of
concern to at least one institution in
the Swedish capital the central bank it
believes the move towards more
electronic payments is positive but also
for sees potential challenges in
eradicating cash completely if cash
would go away and we tend to think about
cash as being the last line of defense
of to speak that if you can pay in over
the way you can still pay in cash but
this cash is not there and we experience
some kind of disturbance in the
electronic payment systems how how do we
pay then how can we get food fuel and
these kind of things that we need in our
daily life
there is still many questions
surrounding the whole idea of a cashless
society as one of the guardians of
Swedish financial stability the central
bank or Riggs Bank is busy weighing up
its options the Riggs Bank should
possibly issue a digital means of
payment like a digital currency and we
quality are equal now this is something
that would be completely new for central
bank to do and is no one that we can
really watch and learn from so we have
to do all the footwork by ourselves and
we are just investigating yet to learn
more about that option so how would a
digital currency issued by a central
bank work take Germany's central bank
the Bundys back it issues euros in the
form of coins and notes in future
ordinary Germans might have an account
directly with the Bundys bank unlike
with a private bank this money would
continue to belong to the account holder
in theory making it as secure as cash or
would it be better to retain a minimum
supply of cash and have that written
into law for the students in Siegen
there's plenty to consider it's give it
10 or 15 years and I think we won't be
able to use cash hardly at all any more
baggage lot of things continue on their
current trajectory I think we're heading
towards a totally monitored society
where everyone will know that their
lives are transparent and relaxed
accordingly try not to draw too much
attention to themselves
what the future holds is not yet clear
what is clear a world without any cash
at all poses numerous risks
the main problems of cash to society are
one that creates a far more surveillance
so you create essentially a financial
surveillance state - it excludes a lot
of people who can't get access to
digital payment systems three it opens
you up to way more risks of cyber
Security's of massive cyber security
risks for it decreases the resilience of
your payment systems so for example cash
has no central point of failure you know
you can't bring it down as it were where
it's a digital payment systems you can
turn them off literally and that point
is important for stuff like in
politically it's important because one
of the implications of cacistis is the
increased ability to essentially turn
off people that you don't want to do
things so you can it could be used for
political repression as well back in
Germany's rural southwest Suzanne Ashley
aheh is heading home how was her day
family I enjoyed it I had quite a few
customers and they were all satisfied
her money van will continue to deliver
cash to outlying regions for now at
least as for the future she's not sure
either
that's as far got guns I hope cash won't
be abolished completely I think it's
important for people to still have the
option of paying with cash for
day-to-day shopping but obviously it's
possible I can certainly imagine it
happening even though I hope it works
okoma for Stella une gong about yeah
[Music]
you